Johns Hopkins on the most respected
institutions country uh nuclear threat
initiative nti and the intelligence
group at the economist collaborated to
evaluate the problems of the worldwide
preparedness for pandemics essentially
and I think in November Sam came out to
see me with Ernie or recent former
Secretary of Energy who now is the CEO
of the event III he and Sandra
co-chairman and Beth Cameron who did a
lot of work on this report came out to
see me and they gave me a November I
believe of last year they gave me this
appraisal and the opening line if you'll
turn the page this is the opening line
of those three hundred page tome
biological threats natural intentional
or accidental in any country can pose
risk to global health international
security in the world why the economy
and this book was prepared in order to
evaluate the preparedness of the various
countries and ranked them we ranked
pretty well but all of us kind of
failing all of the countries got a
failing grade basically now you would
think with the prestige of Johns Hopkins
some economists along with people like
Sam and Ernie etc that this would have
gotten some attention and again Sam
turned the next baited Sam and then how
there's one on YouTube on October 24th
2019 and they have racked up as of a
couple days ago 1498 views now my friend
Bill Gates was
delivering the same warning a TEDTalk
some years back and he's gotten a lot
more views but it just says something
about the fact that you're going to get
bolts from the blue and you can read
papers about them and you can you can
talk about what will happen if some as
they used to the fellows at Sigma
Solomon just tell me some 25 Sigma men
comes along and they're you know they
say this that that'll happen once in the
life of the universe you know and there
happens to him a couple of times in a
month and they go broke it
you just don't know what's going to
happen you know at least in my view you
know that America's tailwind is not
exhausted you're going to get a fine
result if you own equities over a long
period of time in the idea that equities
will not produce better results than the
30 year Treasury bond which yields one
and a quarter percent now it's taxable
income
it's the aim of the Federal Reserve to
have 2% of your inflation equities are
going to outperform that they're gonna
outperform Treasury bills they're out
they're gonna outperform that money
you've stuck under your mattress
I mean there's they are a a enormous Lee
sound investment as long as they're an
investment and they're not a gambling
device or something that you think you
can safely you know buy on margin or
whatever it may be it's interesting that
stocks offer which and stocks are a we
always look at stocks was just being a
part of a business I mean stocks are a
small part of a business in if in 1789
you'd saved a small amount of money and
it wasn't easy to save
you might have bought with those savings
you might have bought a tiny tiny plot
of property maybe you bought a house
that could be rented to somebody but you
didn't really have the chance to buy in
but then different people who were
developing businesses and the word
pudding wasn't always putting their own
money and then that would have the
americantale went behind and and of the
ten a reasonably high percentage would
succeed in a way and decent returns but
but those are the choices you might have
had do with savings and they started
offering bombs originally and there
again you got a limited return but the
return may have been in those days may
have been five or six percent or
something of the sort but you know you
can't buy risk for your bonds I mean
then the yardstick for me is always
thing
the US Treasury in and when somebody
offers you quite a bit more than the US
Treasury there's usually a reason
there's there's more risk but going back
to stocks people bring the attitude to
them too often that because they are
liquid and quoted minute by minute that
it's an important that you develop an
opinion on them minute by minute now
that's really foolish when you think
about it and there's something graham
taught me in 1949 I mean that single
thought stocks were parts of businesses
and not just little things that moved
around on charts or the charts were very
popular in those days and whatever it
may be
imagine for a moment that you decided to
invest money now and you bought a farm
and the farmland around here let's say
you about 160 acres and you bought it at
X per share urban per acre and the
farmer next you had a hundred and sixty
identical acres same contour you know
same quality of soil quality some it was
it was identical and that farmer next
door to you was a very peculiar
character because every day that farmer
when they identical farm said I'll sell
you my farm or I'll buy your farm at a
certain price which he would name now
that's a very obliging neighbor I mean
that's got to be a plus to have a fellow
like that with the next farm ah you
don't get that with farms you get it
with stocks yeah you want a hundred
shares of General Motors and on Monday
morning somebody will buy your hundred
shares or sell you another hundred
shares at exactly the same price and
that goes on five days a week but just
imagine if you had a farmer doing that
when you bought the farm you look to
what the farm would produce that was
what went through your mind you were
saying to yourself fun hey X dollars per
acre I think I'll get so many bushels of
corn or soy beans on average some years
good some years bad some years the price
will be good some years the price will
be bad etc but you think about the
potential of the farm and now you get
this idiot that buys a farm next to you
and and on top of that he's sort of a
manic-depressive and drinks maybe smokes
a little pot so his numbers just go all
over the place
ah now the only thing you have to do is
to remember that this guy next door is
there to serve you
and not to instruct you you bought the
farm because you thought the farmers had
the potential you don't really need a
quote on it you know if you bought in
with john d rockefeller or andrew
carnegie and there were never any quote
but there were quotes later on but but
basically you bought into the business
and that's what you're doing when you
buy stocks but you get this added
advantage that you do have this neighbor
who you're not obliged to listen to it
all was going to give you a price every
day and he's going to have his ups and
downs and maybe he'll name a selling
price the dell biotin in which case you
sell if you want o or maybe he'll name a
very low price and you'll he'll buy his
farm from him but you don't have to and
you don't want to put yourself in a
position with torsion where you have to
sow stocks have this enormous inherent
advantage of people yelling out prices
all the time to you and many people turn
that into a disadvantage and of course
many people could profit in one way or
another from telling them telling you
that they can tell you what this farmer
is going to yell out tomorrow or next
your neighboring farmers gonna be on
that tomorrow or next week or next month
there's huge money and so people tell
you that it's important and they know
and that you should pay a lot of
attention to their thoughts about what
price changes should be or you tell
yourself that there should be this great
difference but the truth is if you owned
the businesses you liked prior to the
virus arriving
it changes prices and it changes but
nobody's forcing you to sell and if you
really like the business and you like
the management you're in with and the
business hasn't fundamentally changed
and I'll get to that little one a report
on Berkshire which I will soon I promise
the stocks have an enormous advantage
and you still
than bet on America but you can't that
unless you're willing and have an
outlook to independently decide that you
want to own a cross-section of America
because I don't think most people are in
a position the big single stocks a few
maybe but but unbalanced I think people
are much better off buying a
cross-section America and just
forgetting about it if you had done that
if I had done that when I got out of
college it's all I had to do to make a
hundred for one and I caught dividends
on top of it which increased would
increase substantially over time the
American tale windows marvelous American
business represents it's going to have
interruptions and you're not going to
foresee the interruptions and you don't
not want to get yourself in a position
where those interruptions can can affect
you either because you're leveraged or
because you're psychologically unable to
handle looking at a bunch of numbers if
you really had a farm and you had this
neighbor and Monday offered you two
thousand dollars an acre and the next
day he offers you twelve hundred dollars
an acre and maybe then they after that
he offers you eight hundred dollars an
acre are you really going to feel that
at two thousand dollars an acre when you
had evaluated what the farm would
produce are you going to let this guy
drive you into thinking I better sell
because his number keeps coming in lower
all the time that it's a very very very
important matter to bring the right
psychological approach dawning common
stocks but I will tell you if you bet on
America and sustain that position for
decades you're going to do better than
then in my view far better than owning
Treasury securities or far better than
following people who tell you that what
the farmers going to get out next
there's huge amounts of money that
people pay for advice they really don't
need and for advice for the person
giving it it can be very well meeting in
it and believe their own line but the
truth is that that you can't have you
can't deliver superior results to
everybody by just having them trade
around a business on into a business
it's going to deliver what the business
produces and and the idea that you can
outsmart the person next to you or the
person advising you can how smart the
next the person sitting next to you is
is well it's really the wrong approach
so find businesses get a cross-section
in my view for most people the best
thing to do is don't own the S&P 500
index fund people will try and sell you
other things because there's more money
in it for them if they do and I'm not
saying that that's a conscious act on
their part that the most most good
salespeople believe their own baloney I
mean that's part of being a good
salesperson and I'm sure I've done
probably about my life too but it's it's
very human if you keep repeating
something often if that's what lawyers
get had the witnesses keep saying things
over and over again that at the time
they get on the witness stand though
though they'll believe it whether it was
true in the first place or not but the a
you are dealing with something
fundamentally advantageous in my view
and only common sucks I will bet on
America the rest of my life and I hope
my successors in that Berkshire do it
now we do it in two different ways we do
it by buying entire businesses and we
buy parts of businesses and I would like
to emphasize that what I like to give
you few figures that will tie in for
more activities in the first quarter and
also what we've done in April we are not
right about we do try to
the businesses that we think we
understand we don't buy the S&P 500 and
we like to buy the entire businesses
when we buy them but we don't get a
chance to do that very often most of the
best businesses are not available for
sale than their entirety but we don't
mind in the least
buying partial interests in businesses
and we would rather own six or seven or
eight personality you know a wonderful
company and regard it as a partnership
interests essentially in that company
and then we get an opportunity to do
that through marketable securities and
sometimes we get more opportunities than
others and with that I hope I've
convinced you to depend on America I'm
not saying that this is the right time
to buy stocks if you mean by right that
they're going to call up instead of that
I don't know what they're going to go in
the next day or a week or a month or a
year but I hope I know enough to know
well I think I can buy a cross section
and do fine over 20 or 30 years and they
think that's kind of a guy ad not in the
optimistic view boy but I hope that
really everybody would buy stocks with
the idea that they're buying
partnerships and businesses and they
wouldn't look at them as chips to move
around
hey investors Zach Guzman here are you
interested in learning more about the
markets and getting the latest financial
news well then click right here to
subscribe to our Yahoo Finance youtube
channel get the latest up-to-the-minute
market analysis big interviews in the
world of finance and information on how
to manage your money every day wherever
you are